In the previous lesson we have finally completed the first stage in building our project which is displaying
all questions from our database to our application.
I'm sure, so far You have learned many things or at least you have reviewed what you have learned before.
Now it's time to continue into the next stage in building our project.
that is adding new feature that allows us to create new question.
So in this lesson we're building the question form, and we'll continue validating the form and saving the
question to database in the next lesson.
Alright, let's open up our terminal and again here
let's create a new branch: git
checkout -b
and then the branch name will be `lesson-7`
OK
firstly let's add a button on the top right here
this button will be "ask question", a button to create new question.
All right let's head over to our editor
open index.blade.php
and jump to `card-header` and here we'll place the heading on the left and the button on the right
In the prior version of bootstrap we can utilize `pull-left` class to place element on the left and `pull-right` class to place
element on the right.
but now in bootstrap 4 we can utilize flexbox
so div class `d-flex` and then to make the content of both sides in the same base line
here we can add: align
items center
like so
let's move this to here and we'll place it in heading two
and then add a new div with class `ml-auto` or margin left auto so that the button inside it
will be positioned in the right
and here
Let's add an anchor the target or href attribute will be
route questions.create
If you're not sure which route you will use
Just go to your terminal and type php artisan route:list
and you can also filter the routes by specify name tag equals and then the name
In this case questions
here you can see all routes for the questions and here question create
will be mapped to questions control at create action.
OK let's give it classes
btn btn-outline-secondary
and the next will be ask question
save the changes and let's see
All right here we have all questions heading on the left and the button on the right side.
And if you see they are in the same baseline.
Now if you click on the button we'll get a blank page because the create method in our questions controller is
currently empty.
Alright back to our editor
and open questions control
jump to create method
here
let's define a variable to hold empty question object
So question equals new question and then return a view
questions create and pass the question object to this view using compact
question
Now let's switch to index.blade.php
and save this as
create
blade php save
here let's change the heading to
ask question
and here we'll need to change this "Ask Question" to let's say "Back to all questions"
and change the route
to questions
dot index
and here inside `card-body` let's get rid of all contents
and for now let's just show
a message "question form"
save all changes
And let's see how it look like.
Here we have "Ask question" on the left and "back to all questions" button on the right.
And here we have question form show up here.
OK
Now let's change this text with actual form
here let's get rid of this line
and define a form
So form action
and it will be route questions dot store
and then specify method attribute and it will be post in this case
inside this form
let's add a div
and give it bootstrap class `form-group`
Inside this we'll need a label
for question title
and then the label's text will be
Question title.
And we also need text input so input type text the name will be title
and then the ID will be a question title
And the class will be bootstrap form control
OK let's duplicate these
change the question title to question buddy.
Actually this for and id attributes aren't necessary in this case by defining them
is more semantic I think.
And then here change that text to "explain your question"
here for the question body we need a text area instead of text input.
So let's remove this and add text area
the name will be body
The ID will be question-body let's set row attribute
let's say 10 rows and the class will be form control.
I think we only need this inputs at least for now
and we'll need a button to submit our question.
So let's add another form group.
and in here let's add a button
specify the type as submit and then give it classes btn btn-ounline-primary and make it a little
bigger
by specify btn-lg class
and then the text will be
let's say ask this question
OK save all this and let's see.
This should be `rows` I think
Save reload again OK great.